All right.
So we talked about higher order functions to prepare for decorators.
Now let's move on and talk about decorator's.
So a good place to start is just defining what a decorator actually is.
So a decorator is simply a function but more importantly it's a function that wraps other functions
enhancing or changing the behavior of the function that is being wrapped.
There are examples of higher order functions and decorators also have their own special syntax.
You can use the at sign.
It's just a shorter syntax but we don't have to use it.
But we should.
But first I'm going to show you how to set up a decorator just a wrapper function that enhances the
behavior of another function without using the syntactic sugar.
And then we'll see the nicer way of doing it.
OK.
So let's take a look at that first example.
So here we have our basic basic function called greet.
And it just prints My name is called.
All right.
But then we have this other function called.
Be polite.
That takes the function as an argument high order function.
Not only does it take a function as an argument.
It actually returns another function that's defined inside.
So we have a function that we're calling wrapper does not have to be called that can be called anything
but we're going to return it from Be polite and all that it does is print what a pleasure to meet you
and then it executes function whatever was passed in and then it prints.
Have a great day.
And at this point these two functions have nothing to do with one another totally separate.
But then there's this line.
This is where we start to decorate our function where we take greets and we pass it in to be polite
and we save the result that's returned the wrapper function to a new variable.
In this case we're just calling it great.
So grete is equal to the result of passing green into Be polite and the result of that is that we get
a function that takes this functionality and sandwiches it between what a pleasure to meet you and have
a great day.
OK.
So I have the same code here in the file and all we need to do is then execute greet let's do it three
times.
And we get what a pleasure to meet you my name is cold.
Have a great day.
That's the first time and the second time than the third time.
All right.
So hopefully you can see how we are wrapping this function greet inside of another function we're returning
it and then we're storing it in a variable called greet we could call it wrapped greet or something
like that but I'm just going to go with great.
But I want to be clear that name doesn't matter.
But whatever is here is what you would call.
But in a moment I'll show you the nice syntax that Python adds so we don't ever even have to do this
line.
But I just want to make sure that everyone's comfortable or as many people as possible are comfortable
with the idea of having a function that returns this wrapper and the wrapper does something first then
does a function that we passed in greet and then does something else.
So we could do another one where we have I don't know def rage print I hate you like this.
And then we could define polite rage equals be polite rage and then down here.
I just need to call polite rage.
And that gives us get a pleasure to meet you.
I hate to have a great day so you can see we're wrapping this code or this function with functionality.
Now the utility of decorators comes in when we're not just you know printing polite sentences but we
start to add other functionality around things and also examples in a future video in the section that
actually show why you would use that.
But next let's look at the syntactic sugar I've been mentioning using that as a sign that helps us create
a decorator faster.
OK so here is that syntactic sugar we have are two functions.
They are unchanged but the difference is that I'm now putting this at.
Be polite.
The name of this function here on the line before I'm defining whatever the function is that I want
to be wrapped in Python takes care of the rest.
I don't have to do this anymore.
It automatically does this.
So whenever I call greet it's basically the same as me having a variable called greet.
Well it is the same which is the result of calling be polite with greet and that wrapper function that's
returned.
Instead we just have to write this so we can test it out.
All I have to do here is just do at be polite and I can get rid of all of the signs down here.
Now get rid of that as well.
And if I call greet Let's see what happens.
There we go.
What a pleasure to meet you.
My name is cold.
Have a great day.
Notice it only applies to this function.
If I wanted it to apply to rage I could do that.
Nothing wrong with that I can call rage afterwards
and there we go.
We get both functions now being wrapped so very nice syntax.
This is something that not every programming language I've worked in supports and I'm a big fan of it.
I think it's nice.
Some criticisms of it might be that it's a little over-the-top that it's trying to be too nice and tidy
and that obfuscates what's actually happening but I personally think that it's a nice touch.
But remember you do not have to use it.
We could do the exact same thing which with what we already saw where we could do something like rage
now equals be polite of rage.
This is doing that and the cool thing is it automatically gives it the name rage.
So earlier when I was doing something like polite rage I had to then call polite rage down here but
when we add the decorator with the syntactic sugar it automatically just uses the exact same name so
I can just do this and now I call rage and it's automatically wrapped with whatever we had up here.
All right I'll send this video here.
Decorators are just functions that accept other functions.
They wrap them with some other functionality and return that wrapper function.
But then the cool thing in Python is we can use this at decorator's syntactic sugar in front of a function
definition put at whatever we saw at class method that does the exact same thing except we didn't define
class method.
It was defined for us.
Instead we can use some function that we've defined.
We put it in front of whatever function we're defining and it's wrapped.